Update manually-moving-data-folders.adoc (#2339)
owncloud/docs: modules/admin_manual/pages/maintenance/manually-moving-data-folders.adoc

= How To Manually Move a Data Directory
:toc: right
:mysql-string-replace-function-url: http://www.mysqltutorial.org/mysql-string-replace-function.aspx

== Introduction

If you need to move your ownCloud data directory from its current location to somewhere else **without**

> using a symbolic link, this description guides thru this manual process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using a symbolic link, this description guides you through this manual process.
```

> == Assumtions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Assumptions
```

[NOTE]
====
This example assumes that:

* The current folder is: `/var/www/owncloud/data`
* The new folder is: `/mnt/owncloud/data`
* You’re using Apache as your webserver
* The ownCloud database name is `owncloud`

Please change the paths according your environment
====

== Description of Steps

The following steps are neccesary to move the data directory.

. Stop Apache

> . Enable mainenance mode for your instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enable maintenance mode for your instance
```

. Use `rsync` to sync the files from the current to the new directory
. Double-check the xref:installation/installation_wizard.adoc#post-installation-steps[directory permissions]
  on the new directory
. Change the ownCloud configuration to point to the new data directory
. Disable mainenance mode for your instance
. Restart Apache

Look at each section below for a detailed description.

== Apache and rsync

To save time, here are the commands which you can copy/paste for Apache and rsync:

[source,console]
----
sudo service apache2 stop

sudo service apache2 start

sudo rsync -avz /var/www/owncloud/data /mnt/owncloud
----

> NOTE: Check your commands how to start or stop your webserver if you are not on Ubuntu/Debian.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Check your commands for how to start or stop your webserver if you are not on Ubuntu/Debian.
```

> == Enable and Disable Maintenace Mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Enable and Disable Maintenance Mode
```

> It is necessary to enable maintenace mode to avoid that cron jobs can run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is necessary to enable maintenance mode to avoid cron jobs running or users logging in.
```

> To enable maintenace mode of your instance run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable maintenance mode of your instance run the following command:
```

[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} maintenance:mode --on
----

> To disable maintenace mode of your instance run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable maintenance mode of your instance run the following command:
```

[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} maintenance:mode --off
----

== Fix Hardcoded Database Path Variables

Open a database command line client to enter database commands and activate your owncloud database.

[source,sql]
----
use owncloud;
----

=== Update the oc_storages Table

Run the SQL below:

[source,sql]
----
UPDATE oc_storages SET id='local::/mnt/owncloud/data/'
  WHERE id='local::/var/www/owncloud/data/';
----

=== Update the oc_accounts Table

You next need to update the `home` column in the `oc_accounts` table.
This column contains the absolute path for user folders, e.g.,

> `/mnt/owncloud/data/files/my_user`.

Reviewer: This stuff seems odd (old and new).
e.g. I have a local install with something like `/var/www/owncloud/data/anne/files` `/var/www/owncloud/data/bbob/files` etc. The UID is directly under the `data`  folder, and then the user has a `files` folder under that???

Author: You are right, I will fix that

If a user does not have the path already set, you have to identify the users `id`
and set the path with following command, user by user.
This example assumes the user name = my_user and his id = 1.

Run the SQL below:

[source,sql]
----
UPDATE oc_accounts SET home='/mnt/owncloud/data/files/my_user'
  WHERE id=1;
----

For all users who already have a path like `/var/www/owncloud/data/` in your database, 
you can use the `REPLACE` command:

[source,sql]
----
UPDATE oc_accounts SET
  home = REPLACE(home,
    '/var/www/owncloud/',
    '/mnt/owncloud/data/');
----

For more information follow the complete MySQL {mysql-string-replace-function-url}[REPLACE] command syntax.

CAUTION: Please don’t copy and paste this example verbatim — nor any of the others.
They are provided only as example guides.

=== Update the oc_jobs Table

The next area to check is the `oc_jobs` table. The logrotate process may

> have hard-coded non-standard (or old) value for the data path. To

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have hard-coded a non-standard (or old) value for the data path. To
```

check it, run the SQL below and see if any results are returned:

[source,sql]
----
SELECT * FROM oc_jobs
  WHERE class = 'OC\Log\Rotate';
----
On any results found, run the SQL below to update them, changing the value as appropriate.

[source,sql]
----
UPDATE oc_jobs SET
  argument = REPLACE(argument,
    '\\/var\\/www\\/owncloud\\/',
    '\\/mnt\\/owncloud/data\\/');
  WHERE id = <id of the incorrect record>;
----

CAUTION: The old datapath will be written with `\/`.
Therefore you must add one additional backslash like this: `\\/`.

== Fix Application Settings

One thing to mention is, that individual apps may reference the data directory separate from the
core system configuration. For those, you have to change the path as needed.

Run the following command to list app configs.

[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
{occ-command-example-prefix} config:list
----

> Following sample output may be part of the list:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sample output may be part of the list:
```
